So, talking about a couple of things here,
it's useful that this
isn't a separate file, because now
this is super easy to test, right?
This would be useful outside
of React Query, right?
This is just returning
a method that if you call and
you give it the correct query key, it's
gonna give you back the correct response,
or it's gonna give you back
the result of a response to an API.
Also cool, right?
So that's another thing I
appreciate about React Query,
is it makes all the individual async
parts of your code individually testable.
It's always a positive thing.
Okay, so let's go use this in Details now.
So we're gonna import ( useQuery
) from '@tanstack/react-query',
and import fetchPet from "./fetchPet".
And we're gonna say up here,
const results = useQuery.
So this is how useQuery works.
We're gonna give it a key
of what we're requesting.
So the first one we're gonna give
it is the general overarching term.
This is the details type of request.
And then I'm gonna give it the id.
This is the query key that's going
to be provided to fetchPet.js.
So when I'm pulling off
the queryKey right here,
that's where I'm getting the key
to make the correct id, right?
It's coming from here.
And then I give it this details.
This could be any arbitrary caching key,
right?
This is the same sort of idea of what
you provide to Redis, or Memcached, or
something like that, right?
So this is good basically say,
all right, store it here in your cache.
So then it knows later,
if I request the exact same key later,
I'm gonna get the exact same response.
It's not gonna go fetch that
from the API again cuz they
gave it a cache time of infinity.
Okay, and then I say, if you don't
have that in your cache, run this.
If you don't have details
five in your cache,
run fetchPet, and it'll go get it for you.
Now, we have results.
That's gonna be the result
of whatever I have.
I get to write this code that
looks very synchronous, right,
which is super cool to me.
The first time this comes back,
it's not going to have that cache, right?
So it's going to give me back something.
Notice I did not await here,
you can't await in a render function.
So it's gonna give me
back results.isLoading.
And I'm gonna say something like, return,
div className = "loading-pane".
Freudian slip there.
h2, className
= "loader".
And I just give it something
that you want to spin.
I gave it a spiral.
Put some sort of emoji there,
it'll just spin, right?
So if it's loading on first load,
it's just gonna show that first, right?
This is awesome because, Now we don't have
to have these big complicated things,
like all right, if this is happening
to this, if this is happening to this.
Immediately, the user is
gonna see something loading.
And then as soon as fetchPet completes,
it's going to go and
rerender with the correct information.
So it's short circuits here, right?
And I don't have to
worry about after this.
I can now assume past here,
pet is available and pet has loaded.
So I can just say, const pet =
results.data.pets[0], like that.
Cuz that's the shape,
it comes back from the API.
And now I can say, div
className = "details".
Another div,
h1, pet.name.
H2, (pet.animal),
(pet.breed), (pet.city),
(pet.state), I don't
need those dollar signs.
Okay, Then we'll put a button there.
It's pet adoption site, right?
So you're gonna say,
Adopt (pet.name), a call to action.
And then we'll have a paragraph
underneath that with the pet.description.
Okay, let me make sure that
I'm not out of line here.
So if I click on Luna, you saw that
I had a nice little spinner there for
just a hot second.
If you want to see that a little bit
longer, it just looks like this, right?
Okay, And now, we have this button
that doesn't do anything, but
we have a more detailed pet page, right?
But how cool is this, right?
So I get to basically treat this
like a synchronous hook, but
it's fetching from an asynchronous API.
And then I just have to do
some bifurcation of like,
if it's loading, do this,
there's other things here.
There's results., and you can see here,
there's isError, isFetched,
isFetchedAfterMount.
They give you a bunch of
flags that you can check, or
you can also just look at status,
right, which will have a text
if you wanna do more of a switch
statement or something like that.
If you wanna manually yourself,
call refetch, you can just say,
results.refetch.
And this will actually go back out to
the API if you think it's stale and
refresh it.
There's a bunch of stuff.
React Query is a really
cool piece of software.
We're not gonna really
scratch much more than this.
But honestly, this is pretty cool already.
I think this is better than a useEffect,
right?
This is more readable than to
useEffect according to me.
And here's the cool part, again,
looking back at our network tab.
Sorry, I'm gonna click on Luna,
you can see here I got the pets?id here.
I'm gonna go back, And
I'm gonna click on Luna again.
Notice that it does not refresh Luna,
right?
It's keeping that in the cache.
But if I go back and click on Bunna,
see the pets?id there, 2, right?
But I'm gonna go back to Luna, no refetch.
Pretty cool, right?
Notice that every time I
go back to the homepage,
I am refetching the general
pets search page.
That's because that useEffect
is always running, right?
Doesn't care that it's
already fetched that before,
it's just always rerunning that.
So I don't know,
this is pretty compelling to me.
This is compelling to me enough that I
basically always use this
when I'm using React.
Yeah, I'd rather write this in effects.
So yeah, I use this all the time, yeah.
>> What happens if
fetchPet throws an error?
>> If it does, Then you'll get
results.isError, right there.
And so I'm not being defensive here,
but you would have another thing here,
results.isError.
Return, Okay?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> No, so
it actually tries to refetch three times.
So it's gonna make an assumption of,
maybe there's an intermediate issue here.
So it has some exponential back off.
There's a bunch of stuff
that's really configurable.
But by default, it tries three times with
exponential back off, and eventually,
it'll show an error state So
then I ended up with, no, right?
React Query has some really
cool stuff built into it.